NARRATOR:
Previously on Hill Street Blues...
Goodbye, Phil.
My good friend.
-(shouting)
-That's enough.
-Quit it, get off.
-(groans)
All right, that's it. One prisoner
at a time goes out to the bus.
How do you like it so far?
Can't get enough of it. (chuckles)
Where are you going, hair bag?
NARRATOR:
And now, tonight on Hill Street Blues...
It's misapplied manpower.
The chief wants to help Ozzie
make good on a campaign promise.
I don't make policy.
You don't think the press should question
a PR stunt like Operation Stop 'N' Cop?
Uh... No comment.
You have hurt me, Frank.
And you're going to pay for it.
(chattering)
Okay, item 11,
memo from building maintenance.
Guys, I'm not going to make
a big deal out of this.
Now, the memo says
that they found that some detergent
they've been using
on toilet seats, etcetera,
make cause skin rashes
on certain sensitive skin.
So if anybody's been having skin rashes
on those general areas.
Yeah, Renko, but he doesn't have
any skin that's sensitive.
(laughter)
Maybe don't worry. Or maybe worry.
Item 12, Stop 'N' Cop blocks.
That's Dekker between 118th and 120th.
An operation against these
drug supermarkets begins today.
And I guess lasts
until Mayor Cleveland decides
that he's covered his campaign promise.
First target will be the catchily named
Sexy Clothes Boutique...
-(men whooping)
-...which was picked on the basis
it has the lamest front.
Last surveillance offered
one moth-eaten housedress
-hung on a rack in the front room.
-(snickering)
We got Detectives LaRue,
Washington, Belker,
Furtias, Katz, and Lieutenant Goldblume
on this observation and bust stakeout.
All backups will be posted upstairs.
Item 13, Lieutenant Hunter will be taking
applications for the equestrian unit.
As of May 1, this precinct
will have four horses.
-(snickering)
-Which I guess means four horsemen.
Last item, new partners.
We got the transfer of Officers Peyser,
Rolf and Donahue to nights,
so that makes the following reassignments
absolutely necessary.
Richardson,
you'll be partnered with Conroy.
Coffey with Pilsky.
And those will be till further notice.
-Okay, that's about it.
-(chattering)
LUCY: Hey, hey, wait a second, everybody.
For the last ten days, I mean,
since I started doing roll calls, I...
I feel like when I get to the end
of these things
I'm like walking on eggshells. I...
I don't know how to end them. I mean--
The first one I wanted
to end the way the sarge did.
Anyway, I guess we got
off to the wrong start.
Well, I miss it.
I mean, I miss hearing those words.
And I think maybe
some other people miss it, too, so...
if there are no objections,
I mean, I know I'm not the sarge.
I can never be the sarge.
I'm-I'm roll call sergeant.
Are there any objections?
Okay, then let's roll.
(cheering)
And let's be careful out there.
Come on, move!
-MAN: Good morning.
-(indistinct chattering)
Belker.
Move!
-Hill, Renko. Homicide.
-MICK: Come on, hair bag.
The alley behind Van Buren and Duluth.
All right, thanks, Lieutenant.
Uh-huh. Yeah, and does it have a sunroof?
No, that's-- I ordered it though.
Okay, it'll be, uh, a credit union check.
Okay. (chuckles) Thanks a lot. Bye.
Socking the salary boost
in the vehicular transport, Sergeant?
Yeah, this is my first new car. (chuckles)
-Good for you.
-Thanks.
(sighs) Have lunch with me today.
-Really? Lunch?
-Mm.
I...
Yeah, to celebrate, uh,
with an afternoon repast.
Well...
I thought it was a vacuum cleaner,
that's all.
A vacuum cleaner?
It says right here, Vetrocom International
Telecommunication System.
You know what I think this is?
This is a piece of phone company
space satellite, hair ball.
You could be in all kinds of trouble.
Never have nothing but trouble
with the phone company.
(phone rings)
Belker.
Hi, Ma.
You found my Rin Tin Tin lunch pail?
Are you kidding?
Yeah.
Just a second, Ma.
How would you like a crushed vertebrae?
That's real nice, Ma.
You know what you should do?
Give it to little, uh, Stevie.
The kid down the hall.
No.
Because I just use a bag now.
Ma, I'm in a hurry here.
I'm sure I don't need it.
Give it to the little kid.
I love you, too. Goodbye.
-Name?
-What's a Rin Tin?
It's a television show. Rin Tin Tin.
Used to watch it when I was a kid.
My mom just found my Riny lunch box.
Maybe if I'd had a Riny lunch box
when I was a kid
-things would be different.
-Maybe.
Things I could have boosted
with something like that.
(growls)
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th Street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
(siren wailing)
Any of you people see anything?
Anybody see the stabbing?
Yes, sir, I saw it all.
Now what'd you see there, old fella?
It was the older one, Willie Boy.
Older of whom, sir?
Of these hellfire brothers.
I don't know their last name,
but Willie Boy stabbed that man.
I saw it from my window up there.
They argued, then Willie Boy stabbed him.
I've been living in that apartment
for 32 years.
-Uh, mister...
-Talbot.
Mr. Lionel "Train" Talbot.
Mr. Talbot, would you be willing
to come down to the station
and check through some pictures?
I'll identify and I'll give a statement.
Because I'm sick and tired of being scared
of Willie Boy, his brother,
and the rest of these roughnecks.
I'm calling a halt.
Well, all right. Whoo-whoo, Lionel.
BOBBY: Let's do it, sir.
Don't joke with my name
till you know me better.
Sixty percent of a shift's detectives
and we'll be lucky to make six arrests.
Maybe 50 nickel bags.
Obviously, we hoped
for better numbers than that.
Well, unless you want
a turnstile operation,
there aren't going to be
any better numbers.
Then we'll live with those.
Warren, quality busts take time.
You have to document observation.
You try to arrest during commission--
I know the criteria, Frank.
It's what the chief wants.
And if he weren't under the knife,
he'd tell you so himself.
What the chief wants it to mend
some fences with Ozzie Cleveland.
What he really wants
is his hemorrhoids hadn't come back.
Frank...
the chief wants to help Ozzie
make good on a campaign promise.
I don't see the villains there.
It's misapplied manpower.
It's a PR stunt that puts my people
at risk and it erodes morale.
And it gives a false impression
of our ability to deal with a problem.
How many different ways
do you want it to be wrong?
Yes?
Oh, uh, excuse me,
Deputy Chief Briscoe, um...
Please, don't leave on my account.
(chuckles)
For the record, Frank,
Chief asked me to drive by there,
the Stop 'N' Cop operation.
I just didn't want you to think
I was going behind your back.
As opposed to looking over my shoulder?
Now that's in the job profile
for deputy chief.
-Lieutenant.
-Sir.
What can I do for you, Howard?
Well, candidly, Frank, I was passing by,
and I overheard the exchange.
And?
Judas, Frank, I love it. I just--
I love to hear you chew out the suits.
That's him.
Mullins, William. Okay.
Been messing with people
in my neighborhood
as long as I can remember.
Got a brother named Timothy.
Both of them trash.
They robbed me twice.
And I was too afraid to call.
All right, sir.
No more.
Lionel Talbot says enough is enough.
Sarge, we got a suspect
on the Van Buren homicide.
Got an address off a two-week old bust.
Okay, go pick him up.
I'll get you backups.
I'll go with you.
I ain't afraid to face 'em.
No, this job is our, pops.
CLARA: The princess and the stallion.
Who, us?
Yeah, the Polish princess
and the Italian stallion.
Yeah.
(sighs)
-Look, Clara, can I say something?
-Sure.
You probably heard
a lot of Joe Coffey stories, uh...
You figure I'm this way or that way.
You hear a lot of things.
Clara, I would like you and I
to start from zero.
Because the kind of guy I am, it, uh...
I feel right now I'm in the middle
of working that out.
-Hey, we're going to start from scratch.
-Thanks.
-Same goes for me.
-All right.
'Cause, I don't know,
maybe you're gonna...
hear some things, you know? Um...
-About me and my last partner.
-Like what?
Just some things we used to do.
You and Danny Frank?
What do you mean?
What-what kind of things you used to do?
I mean-- what do you mean?
-What kind of things you used to do?
-WOMAN (on radio): Unit 2203, respond.
Yeah, 2203.
Unit 2203, backup 2202
on suspect arrest, 1663 East Utica.
Two-two-oh-three responding. Let's go.
Clara, things like what?
(camera clicking)
J.D.: Great, great, we get stuck
in this roach palace
to get Ozzie Cleveland some PR.
Got to have sustained observation, J.D.
Got to have documented transactions.
I hate these things!
Oh, hey, don't look into the lens,
Belker, it'll crack.
Hey, if you want the bust to fly,
you got to show them getting high, man.
-You there, Fay?
-(camera clicking continues)
(sighs) I'm getting tired
of this damn machine.
I know you're there.
Pick up the phone so we can talk.
You hear me?
And if you're not there,
just please have the simple courtesy
to call me back.
Damn machines.
I always wondered about her.
-Who
-Captain's ex.
I always wondered what she was like.
You've met Fay. You know what she's like.
Well, sure. Sure.
You've got the mind of a pig, LaRue.
Hey, you got the breath of a goat, Belker.
Hey, hey, come on, you guys.
I think it's about time
we made some arrests.
All right. About time
to get some fresh air.
Got enough photos, Neal?
You got Washington on the shutter, baby.
All right, all units,
we're moving on targets. Let's go.
(sirens wailing)
MICK: Come on out from there! Come on!
Assume the positions, dirt bags.
HENRY: Unit 24, you're without charge
before questioning.
-Freeze.
-MICK: Get your hands down.
Hey, check this out, babe.
Ebony and ivory.
(chuckles) They named one after us.
-(chuckles)
-Hey, we've got you on film, babe.
-You are busted.
-We're so advanced, we're simple.
Now, you got the right to remain silent.
You got the right-- Hey!
-Coming at you, Mick!
-Where you going, hair bag?
(groans)
Oh, man, Foster just got cut bad.
(music playing inside)
-What's doing?
-You William Mullins?
-Could be.
-Then you're doing...
(shouting)
-Hey, man!
-Get down!
-(all shouting)
-Hey, don't move!
-Hold it right there!
-WILLIAM: You got a warrant, man? Come on!
Get him out of here
while we search the place.
-Hey, take it is!
-Get out!
Hey, pal, you take it easy or you're
going to take it hard, you hear me?
Let's go.
Leo, we got a Mr. Mullins
here for homicide.
-Future pharmacists of America, Leo.
-LEO: All right. Slow. Slow.
Take this gentleman, please.
-Stop 'N' Cop?
-Yeah. We get a couple of lame busts
and Foster gets cut up
like a Thanksgiving turkey.
-Where did they take him?
-Mercy Hospital.
-He's okay, Captain.
-Yeah, if you don't count blood loss.
Come here, J.D.
Look, J.D., I'm no fan of this operation,
but bitching and moaning
won't help morale.
I'm sorry, Captain, okay?
I just don't like shilling
for Ozzie Cleveland's street games.
You're entitled to your opinion,
but off duty, okay?
-Got it.
-Who's taking the reins?
Me and Neal. Furtias and Katz and Belker
are on a second stakeout.
Oh, about morale, Captain, huh?
Get in a room with Belker sometime.
His breath is enough to crush your eyes.
-Counselor.
-Pizza Man.
(chuckles) How's your day going?
-Nowhere close to my night.
-(chuckles)
Dexter Sawyer, Captain Furillo.
-Pleased to meet you, Captain.
-How are you?
-Dexter just joined our office.
-Good.
Cram orientation course.
Who's in my future, Lieutenant?
William Mullins. Homicide. Interrogation.
Okay.
(clears throat) Gentlemen.
-Who's the kid?
-New PD.
-I don't like him.
-(chuckles)
If you don't mind, Mr. Sawyer's
going to listen to our discussion.
All client-attorney privileges apply.
-That means he's my lawyer, too?
-Yes.
Okay.
You've got an impressive list
of priors, Mr. Mullins.
Armed robbery. Possession.
Aggravated assault.
Assault with a deadly weapon.
All multiple counts.
Man does what he has to do.
Presently, we're talking about homicide,
which puts you in a whole new tax bracket.
That's if I'm guilty.
Which who's to say?
You're a suspect in the murder
of Cecil Gibbons.
In a few minutes, a witness
is going to see if he recognizes you.
So?
He claims he saw you commit the crime.
Says he can identify you.
So I killed him, so what?
Sucker challenged me.
And the next fool that challenge me,
I'll ice him, too.
So, Miss Lady, you just get me
back on the streets,
you won't have to worry
about no witness or no charge.
If you're identified in a lineup,
you're not going to get
on the street, Mr. Mullins.
Murder is a capital crime.
The judge will set a high bail.
That's why a man has friends.
HENRY: Get your heads up, gentlemen.
Step to your left, number three.
That's him. Number four.
William Mullins. He stabbed him.
Take your time, Mr. Talbot.
We want you to be absolutely sure.
I don't need to take my time.
I know who killed Cecil Gibbons.
It was number four, William Mullins.
You want a profile?
I'm as sure as I'm sitting here.
HENRY: All right, that's it.
Move to the door.
I'm looking for William Mullins.
-He's unavailable.
-That's my brother.
He's in a lineup.
I guess you can take a seat
over there and wait.
They should know what they're
gonna do with him in a few minutes.
-RENKO: Where do I have to find...
-BOBBY: Mm, me too. Where to be?
Bobby, public disturbance
in front of this guy's business.
You and Renko check it out.
Oh... We're about go to get
something to eat.
Can't you give it to somebody else?
No, I cannot.
-How we rolling, brother?
-Hard.
-Hey, pops.
-Hi, Officer.
-Mr. Talbot.
-Yeah?
My name is Joyce Davenport.
I'm representing William Mullins.
This one case you're going to lose.
I'd like to ask you some questions.
I can't now
because I got to go to the clinic.
I'd like to make it pretty soon
while your memory is still fresh.
I ain't trying to duck you.
Just got hypertension
and I got to go to the clinic.
Now this is my address.
I should be home by 2:00.
-Thank you, sir.
-Yo, Lionel.
You the one said you seen me?
You ain't seen nothing, man!
-You ain't seen me do nothing!
-JOYCE: Shut up.
-Come on.
-You made a mistake, man!
You the one made a mistake!
-You liable to get iced!
-William!
-You going to get cold real quick!
I saw you when you stabbed that man.
I did-- Hey, bro, he made a mistake!
I ain't afraid of you or your brother.
I seen you when you stabbed that man.
Okay. Hey.
Your brother's going to be charged.
You got any other business here?
No, not here.
Well, then take a hike.
And don't even consider
intimidating anybody.
You'll end up in a cell.
(man singing loudly)
You see what I mean?
He's been doing that all morning.
-He's scaring all my customers away.
-♪ Your daddy's rich ♪
♪ And your mother's good looking ♪
Hey, buddy, look.
-You got to--
-(continues singing)
Hey, look, you're causing a disturbance.
You're just going to have to leave.
♪ One of these mornings ♪
-♪ You're going to wake up singing ♪
-Hey.
♪ You're going to spread your wings ♪
♪ And you'll take to the sky ♪
-Take a walk.
-♪ Until that morning ♪
♪ You got nothing can harm you ♪
♪ 'Cause your mommy and daddy are ♪
♪ Standing by you ♪
All right, now you listen to me, pal.
You shut up and walk away from here
or the next song you're going to be
singing is the "Jailhouse Rock."
You understand me?
♪ Just walk away, red lady ♪
♪ You don't have to follow me back home ♪
♪ The empty sidewalk on my street ♪
♪ Is not the same ♪
♪ You're not to blame ♪
Four Tops, 1968?
How the hell would I know
anything about that?
No, listen. All we got is the demon.
Aw, he ain't got no Dr. Monster, man?
I said we ain't got it, brother.
Now get behind the demon. Demon delivers.
-Oh, man, forget that.
-All good stuff, too, man.
(groans)
-Yes, sir?
-You got four tray bags, man, please?
Step right to the door, my man.
-(sniffing)
-They'll take care of you.
You're willing to sell me some smack, huh?
I ain't standing here
looking for a date, coo.
Maybe you're looking to do some time!
-A bust! Bust, man!
-Go, go!
-Red Dog, you got three coming your way.
-(on radio) Roger, Bulldog.
(siren wails)
MICK: Police, freeze!
(gunshots)
(man groans)
What are you doing here?
Phone company wouldn't press charges.
We got a shooting victim here,
435 North Polk.
-Now look what the phone company--
-Shut up!
You're not going to die on me.
-(breathing heavily)
-You understand?
-Logan.
-What?
My name's Jim Logan.
Camden, New Jersey.
You call my mama. Sara Beth Logan.
-Okay?
-No.
No! No!
Come back! Come back here!
Don't do this to me!
(grunts)
The White Sheik is a weasel
and the Black Sheik is a fraud.
And let me tell you another thing,
if he tries to put the claw on me,
I'm going to rip off his arms
and beat him to death with it.
Baron Von Himmel,
last time you met the Sheik
it was war, it was chaos,
it was the worst thing
that ever happened
in the history of wrestling.
What have you got to say
about that tonight?
Vinnie, I'm telling you,
the man hit me with a chair.
I got no respect for this man for that.
That's tonight, 8:30,
Municipal Auditorium.
-He's mine!
-Baron Von Himmel versus the Sheik.
The Leopard King
versus Jerry the Bulldog. Be there.
-Ah!
-(laughing)
-Are you guys going?
-Yeah, we're all going.
-Joe, you going?
-Yeah, I'm going to take Sandy.
-She's never been.
-Yeah. What a classy guy.
Takes his girl to wrestling meets.
-Hey, it's a broadening experience.
-Yeah, right. (laughs)
Hey, you got any extra tickets?
Uh, well, we got, what, six tickets.
Yeah, but they're all, uh,
accounted for, Luce.
You know, I bet you
could get some at the door.
-I'm sure you can.
-Yeah. Yeah, you could.
I sort of got plans anyway. Look I got...
You want to check out this disturbance?
Dekker and 39th.
Anything we can do
for the sarge. (mumbles)
(laughs)
-(shouts)
-(laughing)
(shudders)
Uh, Mrs. Sara Beth Logan, please.
Mrs. Logan, my name is Michael Belker.
I'm calling with reference
to your son James.
I'm-- Yes. I'm afraid
James has been in an accident,
and I'm afraid that he's dead.
Uh, Mrs. Logan.
I have some phone numbers with reference
to James' remains and so forth.
Yes.
I don't really know.
I-I-I don't really know all the details.
No.
No, my best information
is he wasn't doing anything wrong.
He just got caught
in the switches, I believe.
He got caught in some switches
and there was a shooting--
That's right. That's absolutely right.
They are unsafe to walk.
Well, we were, uh,
I'd say we were friends.
And he was doing all right.
He always had something going, you know?
At any rate, Mrs. Logan...
I was with him and he said
to tell you that he loved you,
and I'll-- I'll write you a letter
and send you
the phone numbers and so forth.
I'm very sorry for your loss.
Back here. He won't talk or nothing.
-All right, we'll take care of it, sir.
-(man singing)
-Sounds like Vic Damone again, don't it?
-Yeah.
Hey, bud. I thought I told you
to stop singing
-or I was going to take you to jail.
-♪ Lord done stabbed me, baby ♪
♪ Lord done stabbed me, baby ♪
-RENKO: Hey, buddy.
-BOBBY: Come on, buddy.
Let's help you up from there. Come on.
(groans)
Oh, my God. Call an ambulance right now!
-Call them! Get on it!
-When did it happen?
♪ Must be 20 minutes ago now ♪
Hurry up!
♪ They stabbed me with a knife ♪
-(soft jazz music playing)
-This is nice, Lieutenant.
-Oh, please. Call me Howard.
-Okay.
I bet you're real excited
about your equestrian unit, huh?
Oh, yeah.
I find equine pulchritude unsurpassed.
The grace of movement, the power,
and yet a delicacy that transcends size.
Not at all unlike the characteristics
that I admire in yourself.
(chuckles)
Are you saying that I look like a horse?
Well, only in the most
complimentary sense.
That is, uh, I mean, there's a certain
evocation of the flowing mane,
the deep breaths, the supple haunches.
The haunches?
(laughs)
I'm not sure I'm making myself clear.
Um, the point is...
Damn it, Lucy, you interest me.
I'm very flattered, Lieutenant.
These past two months in therapy,
I've-I've come to realize
that I'm ready to share my life.
That I'm ready for a relationship.
(laughs)
I don't want to be isolated anymore.
Well, Lieutenant, I don't know
where this is leading, but--
You're a very nice man,
but I should tell you
that I try to keep my social life
and my work life separate.
Well, that's-- (clears throat)
That's, uh, probably very prudent.
I think so. (chuckles)
What I had in mind was entirely innocent.
I mean, I have these two tickets
to the philharmonic's
upcoming rendition of Mahler's Fourth.
Kossakowski's conducting.
Like I said, I can't.
Well, if your taste
aren't to the classics,
we-we could go to a movie.
Lieutenant... (clears throat)
this is not something I made up.
You know, I thought about this a long time
and it's something I would like
to stick with, so...
(clears throat)
Maybe we should just order, okay?
Do you bowl?
(laughs) Just kidding.
(laughs)
I heard a cop got cut
in that Stop 'N' Cop operation.
Yeah, Foster.
-Will he be okay?
-Yeah.
(exhales)
I'm getting as bad as you
worrying all the time.
-What?
-Nothing.
No, something's wrong. What is it?
I think we shouldn't
see each other anymore.
I think we should stop. I'm sorry.
Are you serious?
I'm very sorry.
Mick, I-- I think
we ought to talk about it.
Nope. It's got to be this way.
Please, excuse me.
-Mick.
-I've got to go, Robin.
What are our choices, Captain?
You treat us like three-year-olds
the moment you hit sanctuary.
Now, let's pretend there's a line here
and let's not cross that line.
This is a police precinct,
not a press room.
You don't think the press should question
a PR stunt like Operation Stop 'N' Cop?
Stunt? Maybe you should go over
to Mercy General.
One of our stuntmen is being operated on
for a stab wound over there.
Are you saying that a cop getting wounded
justifies any activity he's involved in?
I'm saying everybody has a job to do.
Part of yours may be to provoke a story
with cat and mouse word games.
What's cat and mouse about questioning
the utility of Stop 'N' Cop?
Because it's a question in a void.
You want to solve the drug problem?
Then legalize heroin
and dispense it on a controlled basis.
Put a cop on every street corner,
and that's the end of your problem.
But now you've narcotized
a portion of the population
and what you do
is you risk a police state.
What would you do, Captain?
-I don't make policy.
-If you did?
Maybe I'd pay less attention
to trenchant political concerns.
And I just left a cop
who's going to be wearing a scar
long after politicians
are onto other trendy issues.
Do you include Mayor Cleveland
in that category?
Well, uh...
I think Mayor Cleveland is, uh,
probably doing his best
to deliver on campaign promises
he made in good faith.
Well, is that a yes or a no?
No, uh, no comment.
JUDGE: Okay, here's the deal, guys.
Now your client Mr. Flores,
now, because he's a seller,
I mean, he's gotta do time, right?
All right, 90 days?
Your client Mr. Gomez, he pleads,
he gets probation
with a drug program. Okay?
Ah-ha, the arresting officers.
-Al?
-Please, detective, "Your Honor."
Like my robes?
Okay, fellas, um, give me a minute
with a couple of old trenchmen, huh?
Tell your guys.
(chuckles)
This is kind of a surprise,
uh, Your Honor.
I owe it all to this book, J.D.
The Brothers Karamazov.
You owe your job
to The Brothers Karamazov?
No, not my job. My job I owe, of course,
to eight years unstinting service
through psychic crisis
and otherwise through the 23rd Ward
Democratic Committee.
(inhales) But my method...
Are-are you-- are you familiar
with the teaching of the Grand Inquisitor?
(clicks tongue) Uh, not exactly.
You see, men gabble
about freedoms and rights. Nah.
In truth, they crave three things only:
Miracle, mystery, and authority.
All right, step back, detectives,
and watch a master jurist at work.
Are these plea bargains
acceptable to your clients?
-MR. FLORES: NG, Judge.
-JUDGE: NG, Mr. Flores.
Gomez here gets a program.
Why do I got to do time?
Uh, Judge, Mr. Gomez also has a problem.
He says drug programs
don't really help him.
He'd prefer probation
and he promises to quit drugs on his own.
Oh, I see.
(chuckles)
Ingrates.
Pipsqueaks.
I'm a former public defender myself,
and I am on to your heroin
guzzling zombie tricks.
You know what I'm tempted to do?
Hold you in contempt till you rot!
I'll give you a good dose
of mace right now.
Unfortunately, rule of law prevents me.
-But I can find you guilty as charged.
-(gavel bangs)
Mr. Gomez, 14 months.
Mr. Flores, seven years.
And believe me, sir, if I could...
I would throw the book at you.
-Remand to custody.
-WOMAN: Your Honor.
This is just an arraignment,
there hasn't been a trial.
(chattering)
(whispers) I know exactly what I'm doing.
(whispers indistinct)
-(normal voice) I'm just kidding.
-(laughs) Same old Al.
Your Honor, my client feels
that the drug program
originally offered him
is now in his best interest.
Mr. Flores will take his 90 days.
I am delighted.
JOYCE: Here you go.
-What a pit.
-It ain't the Ritz.
Uh, excuse me,
the names are off the boxes.
Which apartment is Lionel Talbot's?
-Who're you from?
-We're public defenders.
He's not in any trouble.
Train lives first room to your left,
top of the stairs.
-Thank you.
-Hmm.
Uh, you know, uh, this isn't going to be
my most favorite part of the job.
It isn't anyone's. You get used to it.
When Mr. Talbot answers the door,
I want you to verify
whether he's wearing his glasses or not.
That's pretty cagey.
(gunshots)
(baby crying)
-(cocks gun)
-I called the cops.
Get the hell out of here!
-(baby crying continues)
-(indistinct chatter on TV)
(sirens wailing)
HENRY: Either of you get a clear look?
Or you get a description?
No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I was just so afraid.
JOYCE: He looked like the brother.
-The brother of the man--
-Mullins? Timothy Mullins?
Brother of William Mullins.
Call it in. Get a picture.
Get a description out.
He pointed the gun at me, I don't know.
Somebody yelled. And I didn't know
if he was going to shoot.
Joyce, it's all right.
He was going to shoot,
and then he just ran away.
Oh, Frank. (sobbing)
Twenty-two-oh-three, Dekker and Reese
are clear. North on Dekker.
Twenty-two-oh-two, King and 116th's clear.
West on 116.
-Wait a minute, Renko.
-No, no.
West on 116.
-2203.
-(siren wailing)
Subject running west on Fredrick.
We're in pursuit.
-Hold it!
-(grunts)
(tire screeches)
-(horn blares)
-Freeze!
(siren wailing)
Come on, up against the wall, creep.
Come on, let's move it!
Hey, we got Timothy Mullins.
Hey! I want to talk to my brother.
Leo!
His brother's downstairs.
Keep him upstairs.
LEO: Okay, Mr. Mullins. You have
the same address as your brother?
TIMOTHY: Hey, I ain't saying nothing
till I see William.
Put down that it is, Leo.
RENKO: You ain't going to say nothing
at all in a minute.
Hey, I didn't do nothing,
my brother done nothing!
All the way to the end.
Number four, stand up straight.
I'm not sure.
Turn to your right, please. Profile.
I'm sorry, I can't make
a positive identification.
We're not looking
for legal certainty here.
I understand what you're looking for.
I can't be sure it's he.
Which one aren't you sure of?
Any of them.
-Joyce.
-What?
I couldn't be sure, Frank.
Then you did the right thing.
But let me be sure I understand here.
You mean you really couldn't identify him,
or you're just distraught
and maybe we should try again tomorrow?
What do you want me to say, Frank?
Is that what you want me to say?
Mayor Cleveland's here, Captain.
He's in your office.
I'll see you at home.
She afraid the other brother's
going to take care of her
the way this one did Talbot?
She couldn't ID, Henry.
What do we do with him? Let him go?
Hold for arraignment tomorrow morning.
-Got a charge?
-Resisting, conspiring.
-What about the brother?
-DA won't charge.
Guarantee you, he'll be out by tomorrow.
Just who the hell do you think you are?
Roll that back, Oz.
It's Mayor Cleveland.
-Mayor.
-You suggest we legalize heroin?
-Oz-- Mayor--
-That we put a cop on every street corner?
I'm not sure the Third Reich
had that kind of compliment.
Not at all what I suggested.
It was on the damned afternoon news.
You were on the damn camera.
No, what I was trying to say there
was that you have to put the problem
-in a larger context.
-(sighs)
I can't be responsible for their editing.
"Trenchant political concerns.
Politicians moving
onto other trendy issues."
-That's out of context.
-Bull.
You have hurt me, Frank.
And you're going to pay for it.
First, we'll see about
minimizing the damage.
Have a statement ready
by 9:00 tomorrow morning.
-What for?
-A press conference.
We're going to see
how much of this you can eat.
-Captain, do you have a minute?
-Sure, Luce.
Do you want to talk privately?
Uh, no... I guess I'm just feeling
out in left field.
-What do you mean?
-Well...
I'm not really on the street anymore.
I'm not a street cop
and I don't feel like a sergeant yet.
It's only been two weeks, Luce.
Actually, I don't mean the job.
I mean, that part is really going okay.
It's... It's like...
I just got a car, a new car, a compact.
You don't know how long
I've been promising myself
that someday
I was going to buy new wheels.
I felt great about it.
So that's good.
See, I didn't have anybody to tell.
I mean, if I told Joe or Bobby
or even Andy,
it's like I'm rubbing their noses in it.
-You know what I mean?
-Yeah, I do.
Besides, I miss the action.
I just miss being out on the street.
It's not an easy transition, Luce.
For everything you gain,
you have to give up something.
Yeah. I'm glad I got the problem.
You're not wearing your stripes.
Just haven't had time to put them on.
Put them on, Luce.
(soft music playing)
(sighs)
Hi.
This is kind of like a nightmare, Mick.
Please, you got to say why.
-I said.
-What?
I don't want us to see each other anymore.
That's not a reason, Mick.
'Cause I think it's better.
'Cause I don't happen to think
we're good for each other, okay?
You don't get to say what you are for me.
Come on, don't cry.
Because I love you.
And we're in love.
And we're the best thing
that ever happened for each other.
Everyone dies.
Everybody that I touch dies.
I couldn't stand it
if anything happened to you.
It would kill me.
Well, they don't die
'cause you love them, Mick.
-They do.
-No.
Some things die 'cause it's their time.
Like your pop, or like the sarge.
He was too young.
Yeah, he was too young.
But it was his time.
And the others...
everyone on the street who's hurt,
if they've got guts
or they're-they're a little weird,
you reach out to them.
And the thing is, they're hurt.
And some hurt things die.
But it's not 'cause you touched them.
You touching them,
that's a good thing in their lives.
I'm so afraid
something will happen to you.
I don't know what I'd do.
I'm not going anyplace, Mick.
You can't lose me for anything.
(grunting)
All right, relax.
All right, the next thing
we're going to do,
we're going to do a backhand strike
with the right hand.
I'll show you how we did it.
I'm going to take a step forward,
we're going to strike
an imaginary object up here.
All right, down, toes turned in.
Snap the arm back, all right?
(grunts)
All right, want to try that?
All right, toes in. Good fists.
(grunting)
Back. One more from the gut.
Back. Good. Real good.
Ready position.
You did real good.
I'll see you all next Tuesday.
Bow.
-Thank you.
Fay.
-Damn it, Fay.
-Everything all right, Mrs. Furillo?
Hey, go watch a Bruce Lee movie.
Good idea.
Very macho, Henry.
Ten days of messages,
three notes in your mailbox.
And I thought the return message
was very clear.
I didn't get a return message.
That's the message. We broke up.
Hey, I was under the impression
that we parted friends.
-I reconsidered.
-When?
The next morning.
You see, I don't put the same premium
on being reasonable as you do.
You know, you were the one who suggested
that maybe we should stop
seeing one another.
And as I recall, your exact words were,
"Sounds right to me."
-Can't we talk about it at least?
-No. No. I choose to go on with my life.
I do not choose to rehash old business.
Fay, this business
has not been hashed yet.
Please.
(clicks tongue) Okay.
FAY: You bet I'm angry.
I'm angry because you weren't
more attracted to me.
I'm angry because you wouldn't
just admit it.
And I'm angry
because you made me feel like
there was something wrong with me
because of it.
And I'm angry
because you wouldn't fight harder
to try and find it.
I was attracted to you, Fay.
But I seem to recollect
you saying we bring adult baggage
to the relationship.
Don't kick me out of your life
because the relationship
didn't give you everything you wanted.
Maybe you're right.
Maybe I didn't fight hard enough.
You, the baby, Frank Jr.,
you've been the best things
in my life this past year.
Maybe unconsciously I felt if we fight,
that's jeopardize,
so I pulled back.
(scoffs) I don't know.
You've been the best thing
in our lives, too, Henry.
-(sighs)
-(chuckles)
You know, Frank Jr.
asks about Josh all the time.
-(exhales)
-And you.
I don't want to lose all of it, Fay.
I don't want to, either.
But, I mean, um...
to hell with the reasons.
If we can't be lovers,
can't we at least be loving friends?
-At least that.
-Yeah.
(clicks tongue) I'm trying to think
of 20 different ways
I could eat humble pie
at Ozzie's press conference.
Let's talk about it.
Is that the captain talking or my husband?
That's not fair.
'Cause I sure had the feeling
that was the captain's arm on me
outside that lineup room.
I have a line to walk, too.
The captain needs to make this case.
The captain can't do that
without your testimony.
That doesn't mean I don't understand
what you're going through.
Frank, I know what my duty is.
How do you think it makes me feel
knowing that I can't do it?
Joyce, I almost lost you today.
I don't want that feeling again.
To be perfectly honest, I don't want
a couple of sociopaths angry with you,
but I know we can protect you.
I want you to know that.
I know that was a two-way mirror.
No way Mullins could see me.
But it's--
it seems like his eyes never left me.
-He was looking right into my eyes.
-Stop.
An officer of the court.
Among other things.
(chuckles)
(closing theme playing)